[SOUND]
The .provider method is the most verbose, and at the same time, the most flexible
method of creating services in Angular. Not only can you create a factory
that's dynamically configurable at the time of using the factory,
with the provider method, you could custom configure the factor just once at the
bootstrapping of your entire application. And then, use that factory throughout your
application with your custom settings. In other words, you could configure this
factory before your application starts. In fact,
as the angular documentation tells us, the provider method is what actually
gets executed behind the scenes when we configure our services with either
.service or .factory methods. Let's go over the steps of
using the .provider method The first step is to define
the provider function. You'll notice that this is a special
function that has a particular property on the actual instance of the function. Here, you see that the var
provider is equal to this, so therefore provider.$get, the $get,
the dollar sign get property, is a function that is directly
attached to the provider instance. That function is a factory function. In other words, it's just like the one that we use
to provide to the .factory method. In that function, you create your service. In our case, we're creating
a new service called Service. This $get property that's a function,
is what makes the provider a provider. AngularJS expects the provider to
have a $get property whose value is a function that Angular will
treat as a factory function. But what makes this whole
setup very special is the fact that you could provide some config
object inside the service provider, and that usually comes with defaults that you
can later overwrite in the step where you configure the entire application,
which we'll see in a minute. So in this case, we're saying
provider.config, which means the config property, again, is sitting on
the instance of ServiceProvider. And it's equal to some
object literal that, for example, can have a prop property in it. Step two is to register the provider
function with the module. And the way you register the provider
is very similar to the controller, the factory, and the service. You just say .provider,
it’s a method on the module instance, and you supply the name of the service
that the provider will produce, in the service provider function, that
has a $get as part of it's properties. Now, notice that the name that you're
supplying in the provider function is the name of the service as it will
be injected into other services, controllers, and so on. The name of the function, or the service
provider function, does not matter at all. The third step is to inject
our service just as usual. And you'll notice, here, that what we're
injecting is we're injecting whatever the .provider defined name was,
not the service provider function. Our .provider declared that we're going
to have a service called service. And therefore, what we're
injecting is also called service. Well, so far,
we haven't really configured anything. So that's why we're on
optional step number 4a. That is registering the config function. Now, Config function is the special
function that you can invoke on the module instance that is guaranteed
to run before any services, factories, or
controllers are even created. Which means that's a step for
us to be able to tap into configuring these services
before they're ever created. Now, the reason it's optional is
because you don't have to configure it, you could just have
the defaults take affect. However, for some services, that it
doesn't make any sense to that any type of defaults, so sometimes this is simply
required by the business logic or particular service that
needs to be configured. The optional step 4b is to actually
define the config function. As you can see here,
in defining the config function, we're injecting ServiceProvider
into the config function. Now, we cannot inject any regular services
into the config function simply because it gets executed before any service's
factories or controllers are even created. Therefore, what we need to do
is get at the provider function over particular service. And if the provider has been declared with
a particular string, the thing that we inject into the config function is
that string plus the string provider. So in this case, our provider has been
declared with service, therefore what we inject into the config function and
then use inside of it is service provider. Once again, the name of the actual provider
function is completely irrelevant. Last but not least, we can then
use this ServiceProvider instance to get at its properties, like config, and
the config properties, to go ahead and configure it for
our particular application. Okay, so now that we went through
the process, in part two of this lecture, let's get into the code editor and
see how this works in action.